this video is sponsored by expressvpn
the internet can be a dangerous place
and your activity is tracked expressvpn
will help to keep you safe and hidden
as well as opening up all sorts of other
opportunities unable to access certain
videos on youtube
oh look now i'm in serbia and suddenly i
can again
trying to find deals for a holiday but
think the site is sneakily raising the
prices every time you look at it
oops now i'm in mongolia and it doesn't
know it's me
somebody got your ip and it's
threatening to ddos you the joke's on
them
that's not your ip they've got
expressvpns
you've got 94 countries to choose from
and it's easy to find the fastest ones
for your needs
use it on your laptop desktop or phone
or all three at the same time
do this and more in just a few clicks
for less than seven dollars a month with
a 30-day money-back guarantee
take back your internet privacy today
and find out how you can get three
months free by clicking on the link in
the description
take back your privacy today with
expressvpn
where is dz sirocco meant to be i didn't
even know
the word until the map came out and a
quick google search showed it to be a
phenomenon where warm air from africa
meets the colder air in europe
so in the last video where i talked
about this i circled the biggest section
of world i thought i could get away with
and moved on to other things but was i
right
is sirocco here or is it here
sirocco sounds like morocco after all so
maybe
it's the same place and the architecture
is similar too
so that's also a strong point or maybe
it's in
india that's not such a silly suggestion
since the pit you see in the map is
awfully like the one in batman
which was shown in front of jodhpur
which is in
india of course the reality is that it's
nowhere it's a fictional island
probably and valve are free to borrow
elements from wherever they please
and they should do if it makes for a
better map all this is just a taste of
the stuff i have to think about when
producing youtube content
although i create videos about games my
journey goes many exciting places
in order to make the best content i can
i often have to delve into seemingly
unrelated topics
many of which are new to me by the end
of this video hopefully you'll
understand how complicated creating a
problem-free video is
how mistakes happen and why sometimes
i'm okay with them
the best example of complexity has to be
my skin videos
skin showcases have a reputation for
being low effort content to keep a
channel pumping out regular
stuff but i don't think mine are for
each and every one
i reach out and contact over a dozen
expert skin makers and carry out a back
and forth with them over several days
i didn't know what to expect when i
started doing this i guess i expected to
get a good knowledge of skin making for
counter-strike
what i didn't expect was how broad a
number of topics i'd end up covering
they'd swat up on greek mythology or
about a particular rally car from
decades ago
all of this just to make the best skin
that they could
and since i was covering it in my video
i too ended up doing a fair bit of
research into these areas
i was positively surprised by how much
there was to know about skins
to appreciate the design is one thing
many players will happily buy and use
the skin
unaware of the story behind it it won't
matter to them
but knowing about their stories and
easter eggs gives a whole new layer of
depth to them
and it matters to some people as well as
to the skin creator
by showcasing this i feel that my skin
showcases serve a purpose
and i've grown increasingly proud of how
educational and informative these videos
are
so yeah i've covered all sorts of my
counter-strike content but even the core
content spans more than simply playing
the game
i mean sure i do play it but not
anywhere near as much
as other counter-strike youtubers do and
probably not as much as many of you do
i spend more of the time flying about
empty maps in no clip mode
or staring at them in the hammer editor
naked and full bright
and so other maps and even the game
itself is a hugely complex
changing beast gone are the days where a
game was just released and that was that
counter-strike is a series that spanned
20 years
it isn't the same as it was a year ago
or five
or ten i like to think that my knowledge
of it simply grows over time
but bits get rewritten and how i see
counter-strike in my head is probably a
blend of hundreds of different versions
over time
i'm always horrified to watch an older
video of mine and to discover how much
i've forgotten about
it as well as how some changes that i
thought happened last year actually
happened three or four years ago now
to say my knowledge of the game is
incomplete and inaccurate is an
understatement
and there's always something daunting
about that when starting on new content
take a recent video of mine csgo's late
may update it's not the most important
topic
or the most viewed video that i've ever
made but it's still been seen by a
quarter of a million people
that's 15 arenas worth but all the
viewings it's received next to each
other and is swallowed up over a year
and a half of humanity's time
when each of my videos is watched for so
long by you guys i can justify the extra
time it takes to make a good video
what a few extra hours of polish in the
grand scale of things
i like for my videos to be correct i
feel a degree of responsibility to
ensure that i'm not misleading such a
large part of counter-strike's player
base
if there's a single mistake in that
video it'll be picked up on by thousands
of people
and will corrupt the knowledge of
countless more but the better a job i do
of not making mistakes
the worse it is when i finally make one
and i do make mistakes
even the smaller ones are picked up on
but there are so many people watching my
stuff
it's humbling to think of the cumulative
knowledge my audience must have
you may be gamers but you're also
mathematicians athletes
i'm sure there's an astronaut or two
among you as well and you all play your
bit in pointing out where my knowledge
might be lacking
i recently referred to the bucket things
on vertigo as at things
but no they're trash shoots two builders
corrected me there
thanks for that luckily for me most of
these mistakes are just superficial
things
a while ago i was talking about a skin
and i briefly mentioned sputnik and how
it took the first animal to space
almost as an afterthought i decided to
put a picture of sputnik on the screen
but i got the wrong one
it was sputnik 2 that carried the first
animal into space
when the videos watched hundreds of
thousands of times then of course dozens
of people are going to notice
and tell me that i made a mistake the
core message of the video wasn't wrong
but understandably it made me look as
though i didn't know what i was talking
about
even though it was only the visual
element that was wrong that's the
problem when you add more to your videos
there's more that can go wrong i like my
videos to be correct
but i accept i'm sometimes going to be
99 correct
that last one can be so difficult to
attain and a lot of the time i
don't even care too much back to sirocco
or is it
shiroko pronouncing what pronouncing
words is a big part of being a youtuber
i may be speaking in english
but many of the words i have to say
aren't i might not even know that
they're not
i've learned the hard way that the car
lancia isn't pronounced
lancia it's lancha even jeremy clarkson
got that one wrong
but i feel i have a duty to pronounce
things right many of you take what i say
to be the truth and i feel i'm doing a
disservice to you
if i get this sort of thing wrong i'm
fairly confident that sirocco
is pronounced sirocco as shiroko appears
to be the name of a car
but even that's confusing since some
people claim it's pronounced sirocco
and the name itself is derived from
sirocco anyway so yeah pronouncing words
is always scary for me
especially when i see comments
questioning whether i got them right
there are these so-called pronunciation
guides online that are supposedly there
to help pronounce things
but these are shockingly bad some are
also generated in robot speak
and i think others just copy others or
make up their own pronunciations
it annoys me when a site dedicated to
pronunciation doesn't know the correct
pronunciation themselves although i do
love this pronunciation of beetlejuice
or in doigoloys maybe there are multiple
ways of pronouncing things
krakow for instance a city that can be
pronounced
and spelled in different ways it still
won't stop some people from saying that
their way is right
or worse still insisting that mine is
wrong
don't even get me started on americans
correcting my english
sometimes i'll change my pronunciation
as time goes on and it might not even be
because i was wrong
viega for instance that's a perfectly
acceptable way to pronounce it
but vega has become the popular way to
say it when referring to the
counter-strike team
and amd's vague graphics card so that's
one case where i've changed how i've
said it
but there are some cases where i
stubbornly stick to my preferred
pronunciation
even when i know that i'll be called out
for it just you wait
it could be you bowie knife jiff
quickly moving on i'm always afraid of
saying people's names incorrectly
no number of pronunciation guides will
help me if they were at the back of the
queue when picking their username
but saying it wrong still makes me feel
as though i've openly disrespected them
and by doing so in front of a large
audience i may have changed how others
pronounce their names from now on
imagine if drama alert couldn't say my
name correctly three
kill philip or if pewdiepie called me
3000 licks philip
let's move away from pronunciation this
is a silly thing
two clicks fellow makes mistakes as well
his skyrim one is
terrible he used the word tallest
instead of highest
a genuine mistake because he didn't know
but it was a mistake and he was rightly
pointed out for making it
and at one point in the same video he
even reads 732
as 723 which is 723 meters tall and
proving once of rule that three clicks
phillip is the best
two clicks phillips 98 right at most but
was two clicks
punished for making such a mistake no at
least
not at first because no one noticed for
several months
but the moment one person did suddenly
everybody did
of course what i think happened is that
they saw the first comment checked it
for themselves and then decided to
comment it as well
two clicks philip cowardly removed a
load of these comments at the time to
try and bring the chat back to positive
things again
but in this case i think it's good to
correct two clicks phillip
i'll do it as well but this can lead to
a problem for the youtuber because any
hope of a varied and interesting comment
section is ruined the moment one of
these correction spams begins
and it makes the youtuber ask what if
that youtuber might have spent 40 hours
on that video but because of a
split-second mistake
it ruins any hope of an interesting or
constructive comment section for it
and instead of it being a video about
the topic in question it instead becomes
that video where the youtuber made that
silly mistake if only he hadn't made
that mistake
what if recently i made a video covering
how long cs go games can last
and they got not one but two correction
spams in the comments
and they weren't even mistakes i said
that the longest game would need the
bomb to be planted on all 30 rounds
and hundreds of you pointed out that if
the bomb was planted on every round
it would end up to 16 since the
terrorists would score 16
wins but that's not true since the teams
are swapped after 15.
and the second correction was in this
bit 90 seconds long
both teams can do this adding two and a
half minutes onto the length of the game
you're all quick to tell me that 2 times
90 seconds is 3 minutes
but since freeze times are 15 seconds
long already you have to deduct those 30
seconds from the figure
so me saying two and a half minutes was
correct but you know what
i'm partly to blame for these because i
assumed something was commonly known
about the game that clearly wasn't
these comment spams highlighted two
parts of the video that i didn't explain
adequately which i tried to fix if i
made the video again
sometimes i make mistakes but think it's
unfair to criticize me for them
i hand type captions for each and every
one of my videos to help the deaf or
those who don't natively speak english
i don't mind mistakes in these being
pointed out but please don't insult me
for it
because it's only there in the first
place for a good cause source's unit
measurements always stir up controversy
if a person stood in a doorway either
they're too short
or the door's too tall they can't both
be correct
i typically say that the doors are too
tall but i guess it's equally correct to
say that the people are too short
even though that would result in a
bizarre reality where the
counter-terrorists and terrorists are
all four foot tall
funnily enough the opposite happened in
two clicks philip skyrim video
he calculated that people in that game
are well over six feet tall
and joke that is because they're
scandinavian but
in the comment section he was told by
somebody from a scandinavian country
that people there are actually
shorter than average what should two
clicks philip do
should he argue with them should he
travel to a scandinavian country and
check for himself
no that would make him crazy sometimes
i think a video that's 99 correct can
teach people more
i use simple words in my videos i'm also
aware that a lot of people watching my
videos don't have english as a first
language
and if given the choice between a
kralamandistic word and an easy one
i'd rather choose the easy one there's
no need for thesaurus abuse here
apparently this script can be understood
by a 12 year old
and i'm proud of that if you're a
teacher you're not trying to show the
class how much you know
we're trying to teach them this sounds
simple but you'd be surprised by how
many videos on youtube forget this
sometimes a simple summary is better
even if it misses certain points
and i think that teaching is as much
about what you don't mention as it is
what you do
and that's difficult you already know
you're going to be called out for it
but you've got to ask yourself will the
people who call you out on it even need
the video in the first place
and are they calling you out to teach
you or just to show how much they know
i'm a 99 correct youtuber and that last
one percent is the most interesting one
it's the one that i can learn the most
from it's the price i pay for covering
so many topics
for having such a large and diverse
audience and of course i do mess up and
make genuine mistakes from time to time
please do point these out but genuine
mistakes aside
the gap between my videos and perfection
is what makes my videos mine